# CS250
Final project for my class CS250 at Southern New Hampshire University
<h1 style="font-size:10vw">How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?</h1>
Having your end user's desires inform how you create your program makes sure the product will have value to the end user. User stories are a great way to achieve this. The first thing to do is gather that information through interviews, surveys or the like. Then, the team in charge of the product meets to create user stories that communicate the desire the customers have. It is important that these user stories are prioritized by what is most important and that they are feasible to be completed by the end date of the project. The user stories are then used to inform developers on how they should create a feature. Following this process will ensure that the team produces a product that is user focused.

<h1 style="font-size:10vw">How do I approach developing programs? What Agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?</h1>
When I start to develop a program, I first consider who I am creating it for and what the purpose is. If I can get information from the end user about what they desire directly, that would be a priority. After understanding the requirements, I would create user stories which explain features that should be in the final product. I prioritize them to make sure I am focusing on the most important functions first, and then I get to work. After I finish a user story, I examine again my list of user stories and edit it if I see any changes I should make. Then it's on to the next story. This process is similar to Agile methodology, and this course has taught me this team-level developmental processes can be modified to work on an individual level. Another way I utilize Agile in my development work is when I am unsure what I am supposed to be creating in a class. I follow Agile's principle of communication and speak to the customer, in this case the professor of the class. This is the same kind of communication that is used in Agile teams at work today.

<h1 style="font-size:10vw">What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?</h1>
A good team member is always communicating with their team. Communication I believe is one of the most important parts of the Agile methodology and eliminates many of the problems that can arise in group development. Another important trait to have is being respectful of your fellow team members. Respect is what allows feedback and ideas to flow freely through a team without concern for anger and retaliation. Safe environments enhance collaboration efforts and naturally the team will form bonds and trust one another. Responsibility for your actions is another important part of every team member’s duty. This minimizes the "blame-game" that can be played and ensures that the focus is on problem solving and moving forward. Team members who seek improvement each sprint will find that they are increasing their skill and productivity which will result in a better product for the user.
